## Online Accounts <a name="online-accounts"></a>

Almost all of the services mentioned in this guide will require for you to create an account. It is
very important to keep track of which accounts have been created and where.


### Google Account

Many of the free services suggested in this guide are provided by Google, which makes most of its
money from digital advertising. By providing free services and encouraging businesses and consumers
to move to a digital economy, the number of people that can be served by digital advertising
increases which is highly beneficial to Google.

We recommend that you create a Google account specifically for your business. The Google account
will provide you with email, storage, calendar, and more â€” all for free. Preferably, use the name
of your business for the account name. If your business has a common name which is already taken,
you can also add the location of your business to find an available account name; for example,
`mybusinessname.seattle@gmail.com`.

**Pro tip:** dots in your account name are ignored by Google, so you can use them to break up the
different words and make it easier to read and spell.


### Managing Passwords

In some cases, it can be extremely difficult to recover an account if the password is lost. At the
same time, passwords should be difficult to guess, include a mix of numbers, letters and special
characters, and should not be reused for different accounts.

There are a couple of ways to handle this problem. First, when the option is available, the issue
can be avoided altogether if you choose the "Sign in with Google" or "Sign in with Facebook"
options. That way, you can effectively create an online account with one less password to remember.

Otherwise, we highly recommend using a trusted password manager. They are considered secure and make
managing complex passwords much easier. Most web browsers have a built-in password manager. If you
use [Google Chrome][1], the passwords will synchronize with your Google account. For a
cross-platform solution, we recommend [LastPass][2] since it can be used on any type of device.


### Two-Factor Authentication (2FA)

Many accounts, including those for Google and Facebook, can be further secured by the use of
two-factor authentication (2FA). 2FA relies on two components: something you know (like a password)
and something you have (for example a phone). 2FA might be slightly inconvenient, especially if you
have to log into an account often, but it provides a significant increase in security. For something
as important as your business, we recommend setting up 2FA for the accounts that support it.
