## Electronic Payments <a name="electronic-payments"></a>

Electronic payments refer to any form of payment other than cash. This typically includes credit
card payments, but can also refer to cryptocurrency.


### E-Commerce

E-Commerce is a term that refers to selling goods and services online. Even if your business only
deals with physical goods or services at the store's location, you can also take advantage of
e-commerce by offering the ability for customers to pay upfront. For example, a restaurant may offer
a pre-paid special dinner package. Other businesses may offer redeemable vouchers.


### Processing Electronic Payments

In order to be able to process electronic payments, you have to work with a local bank that can
provide what is called a Point of Sale (POS) system. Depending on the local circumstances and your
particular business, banks may impose some (sometimes seemingly unreasonable) requirements.

Alternatively, there are several payment processing providers that also offer a POS and have good
international coverage including:

* [Adyen](https://www.adyen.com/)
* [myPOS](https://www.mypos.eu/) (EU)
* [Square](https://squareup.com/) (US, UK and AU)

There are no free solutions for processing of electronic payments. Most payment processing providers
will charge a monthly fee in addition to credit card fees. Normally, maintenance fees should be
under $20 per month and credit card fees range from 3-4% + 30-60Â¢ per transaction.


### Selling Products or Services Online

Businesses that want the ability to sell products or services online need for a way to process
credit card payments on their website. Even if you already have the ability to process electronic
payments at your physical business location, you might need to find another payment processing
provider to process online payments.

For US, UK and AU businesses we recommend using [Square Online][11], which does not charge a monthly
fee for their base plan and includes tool to help you build your website. A very popular alternative
is [Shopify][12], but that can be more expensive for small businesses. However, Shopify acts as an
intermediary that integrates with many other payment processing providers, including PayPal which
works in nearly all countries.


### Handling Credit Card Information

Avoid handling customer credit card information. If that's not possible for logistical reasons,
avoid storing customer credit card information in any form. By using one of the payment providers we
recommend above, the credit card information is never stored in your online properties and all the
liability of processing customer credit card information is handled by the payment provider.
