## Digital Advertising <a name="digital-advertising"></a>

Digital advertising are promotional messages delivered over the internet. It is a multi-billion
dollar industry, and it is expected to continue to grow as reliable internet access expands across
the world. It can be one of the most efficient ways to reach out to potential customers, thanks to
the benefits of targeted advertising.


### Targeted Advertising

Targeted advertising consists in focusing on a very specific audience, tailoring the promotional
messages to them and only advertising to a subset of potential customers that fit a certain
criteria.

While not all digital advertising is targeted advertising, targeted advertising has been the major
factor for the growth in digital advertising and thus it represents the majority of the industry.
For most purposes, the terms digital and targeted advertising are used interchangeably.


### How Digital Advertising Works

Digital advertising platforms often collect information about the user in order to enable
advertisers to target specific audiences more likely to lead to a certain business goal, which in
the context of digital advertising is called a *conversion*. Conversions are tracked by embedding
some *tracking code* to the promotional messages to distinguish where each customer came from. For
example, you might see some links that contain a long string of characters at the end like
`?utm_medium=social&utm_source=facebook` – this tracking code indicates the origin of the customer.

Some digital advertising platforms may differ, but most of them make use of a real-time bidding
system. When a potential customer visits a certain website, there may be one or more advertising
*slots* to be filled with promotional content in that page. While the website loads, the digital
advertising platform initiates an auction for the advertising slots, and advertisers bid to display
their promotional message. This all happens in a matter of milliseconds, every time a user visits
the website.


### Risks of Digital Advertising

Advertising online can be extremely beneficial to your business, but if it's not done right it can
also be a huge waste of money. In order to maximize the benefits of digital advertising, business
owners need to first spend a significant amount of effort learning about digital advertising
strategies. In addition to that, maintaining digital ads that lead to tangible business results
requires a large, ongoing time commitment. An alternative could be to pay a digital advertising
agency to manage this on your behalf, but digital advertising agencies generally have a minimum
monthly cost which can be over $1,000.

For those reasons, we recommend that small businesses limit their investment in digital advertising
and instead spend the effort and money on more traditional forms of marketing or on growing the core
part of their business. Once the business has grown organically and can dedicate a significant
budget to digital advertising, adopting digital advertising as part of your business will be much
more beneficial.


### Email Marketing

One of the simplest forms of digital advertising are email lists. You should encourage visitors to
your website to sign up for an email list or newsletter, so they can stay up to date with your
business. If your type of business tends to have repeat customers (hint: most businesses do!) then
you should make it very easy for customers to sign up for the email list or newsletter as part of
the purchase.

Make sure that you don't sign up customers for your email list or newsletter without their consent.
First, it can be outright illegal in some jurisdictions. Second, if enough recipients mark an email
as spam, then emails from you will start being categorized as spam for *all* recipients
automatically.

One of the most popular email marketing providers, which is free to use for the basic tier, is
[MailChimp][15]. We recommend using a established, reputable platform, since email advertising has
been subject to numerous regulations due to the anonymous nature of email attracting shady
businesses.


### Facebook Ads

[Facebook Ads][16] is one of the most successful advertising platforms that small businesses have
access to. Because of the large amount of information that Facebook has about users across their
platforms, which include Instagram and WhatsApp, advertisers can target their promotional messages
to very specific audiences.


### Google AdWords

[Google AdWords][17] is arguably the longest-lived, most successful digital advertising platform
in existence. Since Google AdWords is mainly used to deliver advertising to users of Google Search,
what the users are looking for is used as the most important signal. Even though it is an extremely
powerful tool, compared to Facebook Ads, it can be significantly more difficult to maximize the
benefit of using Google AdWords – partly due to its complexity but also because developing
successful advertising campaigns requires knowledge and practice.
