## Social Media Platforms <a name="social-media-platforms"></a>

In the context of this guide, social media refers to any platform that allows for small businesses
to interact with potential customers. Similarly to [digital advertising](#digital-advertising),
social media requires a significant ongoing effort to be an effective tool. On the other hand,
generally speaking, the only cost of investing in a good social media presence is your time since
the most popular platforms are free to use.

You should monitor the social media channels that your business is in regularly. If you don't plan
on maintaining your social media presence at least weekly, it may be better to reduce your focus to
other areas of your digital presence.

### Understanding the Role of Social Media

Social media should not be seen simply as a tool to promote your business, that's the role of
digital advertising. While promoting your business is one of the benefits of having a social media
presence, the main difference between social media and other forms of marketing is the ability to
engage and interact with potential customers.

The interactions with customers will be different depending on the type of business. For example,
a restaurant might post about specials or limited time menu items to attract new customers whereas a
bike shop might post about biking trails in order to engage and build a long-term relationship with
their existing customers.


### Keeping Up with the Times

Social media platforms tend to change very rapidly. Either by their rise (and fall), or by the
change of the demographics in their user base. To use social media effectively, you should keep up
with what your customers are using — and potentially ignore the social media platforms that you
might be most familiar with.

Further, each social media platform has its own conventions and rules, and you should not treat them
all equally. For example, in some platforms, businesses can be expected to publish new content at
most weekly but in others daily new content would be considered acceptable.


### Automating the Work

Even though you should monitor the social media channels that your business is in regularly, there
are some tools that will help you save some time. There is no substitute to spending the time to
read what customers are saying about your business online — a lot of that will be valuable feedback
that can help your business!

On the other hand, you can save some time by scheduling social media posts in advance. Social media
users tend to engage more with businesses that post content at regular intervals. We recommend using
[Buffer][18] or [Later][19], which will let you schedule social media posts in multiple platforms
for free.
